source/setup-guides/digital-ocean/index.rst, before:

Digital Ocean Simple Setup Guide
================================

This guide is a walkthrough tutorial on setting up UH VPN on `Digital Ocean`_. It contains step by step
instructions on how to provision a private cloud server along with all the necessary steps on setting
up UH VPN client applications.

The guide makes use of the "`1 Click App`_" available on Digital Ocean to create servers for UH VPN
as this provisioning technique allows an entire UH VPN deployment to be set up in less than 5 minutes!

- `Step 1: Create a Digital Ocean Droplet`_
- `Step 2: Create a Server on the UH VPN Website`_
- `Step 3: Configuring the Droplet`_
- `Step 4: Installing Client Apps`_
- `Advanced Digital Ocean Guides`_


Step 1: Create a Digital Ocean Droplet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First create an account or login at: `Digital Ocean`_. Then click the "Create Droplets" button as shown in
the screenshot below:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/do-landing.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: DO Landing Page

One is then presented with a droplet creation page as follows:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/droplet-creation.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Droplet Creation Page

Press the "Marketplace" tab and search for "UH VPN". Once selected, a UH VPN image will
be chosen:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/marketplace-tab.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Marketplace Tab

Ensure the settings are selected as shown below:

- **Plan** : Standard
- **Price** : $5 per month
- **Region** : Choose location closest to you unless you have a specific requirement
- **VPC** : No VPC
- **Additional Options** : None
- **SSH Key** : Select your SSH key.
- **Number of Droplets** : 1
- **Hostname** : Any friendly name you'd like to give to your server. E.g. "UH-VPN".
- **Tags** : None
- **Backups** : None

Then press create! The droplet will then begin provisioning and a page similar to the one shown below will
appear:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/droplet-provision.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Droplet Provisioning Page

Once the provisioning stage has completed, click on the droplet and one will be presented with a page detailing
all aspects of the droplet:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/droplet-overview.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Droplet Overview Page

Note down the IPv4 address of the droplet as we'll use this later on the UH VPN website. Then click the networking
tab in the droplet overview page. Scroll to the bottom and under the firewalls section press the "Edit" button.

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-firewall.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Firewall Creation Page

Press the create button, choose a name for the firewall E.g. UH-VPN-Firewall, then ensure the rules
are defined to match the specification below:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/inbound-rules.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Inbound Rules

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/outbound-rules.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Outbound Rules

Finally, ensure the firewall is associated to the droplet you created earlier. E.g. UH-VPN. Then
press "Create Firewall". The Droplet is now firewalled against adversaries and ready for UH VPN.

Step 2: Create a Server on the UH VPN Website
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The UH VPN `website`_ is the command and control centre for the VPN deployment. All VPN settings
are managed through this interface. The first step (if you haven't done so already) is to
`create an account`_. Then once logged in, click the management tab and then press the
"Create New Group" button. One is then presented with the following page:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-group.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create Group Page

If you're just using UH VPN for personal use, go ahead and click the "Free Plan" button. However,
if you'd like access to advanced features such as custom app branding, unlimited devices and advanced
VPN options, then choose the premium plan. A breakdown of the options can be seen on the
`Creating Groups`_ docs page.

Choose an appropriate name for the group E.g. Personal and then leave the timeout set at 86400.
Then press the "Submit" button and the group will be created.

Click on the group name that has just been created and the following page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/group-page.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Group Page

The first step is to create a UH VPN server, click the "Create New Server" button and the following
page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-server.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Server

Enter the following parameters:

* **Name** : UDP
* **Appearance Order** : 0
* **Domain/IP Address** : IPv4 Address noted from the Digital Ocean droplet earlier
* **Port** : 443
* **UDP** : Enabled
* **IPv4 Tunnel Network** : 172.31.255.0/24
* **IPv6 Tunnel Network** : fe80::/64
* **DNS Servers** : 1.1.1.1, 1.0.0.1
* **Add Forwarding Rule** : Enabled
* **Add NAT Rule** : Enabled

Press submit and the server will then be created.

.. note::
    A full description of all parameters can be found on the `server creation docs page`_.

Once created, press the |key_icon| icon to obtain a UH VPN API token for the server. Copy
and paste this to somewhere safe as it'll be used later.

Step 3: Configuring the Droplet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Login to the newly created droplet via SSH using the username "root". Once logged in, a UH VPN
setup script will appear:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/setup-wizard.png
  :width: 400
  :alt: Setup Wizard

Simply paste the UH VPN API token obtained in step 2 into the prompt and press Enter:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/prompt.png
  :width: 450
  :alt: Prompt

Only one token is going to be added as we only wish to associate one server to this droplet, so
answer with "n":

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/complete.png
  :width: 450
  :alt: Complete

The droplet is now successfully configured and ready to accept UH VPN connections!

Step 4: Installing Client Apps
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the final step in the set up process. First login to the UH VPN `website`_ and navigate
to the group you created earlier. Now it's time to make a new person who's authorised to access
the VPN server you just created. Click the "Create New Person" button and the following
page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-person.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Person

Enter your name and email address, then press submit and the person will then be created.

Next it's time to associate a device to the person that's just been created. To do so, click the
name of the person and then press the "Add new device" button and the following page
will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-device.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Device

Enter the following parameters:

* **Name** : A name for the device. E.g. Android
* **Expiry Date** : Leave unfilled unless you wish to specify a date for device revocation
* **Expiry Time** : Leave unfilled unless you wish to specify a time for device revocation

.. note::
    A full description of all parameters can be found on the `device creation docs page`_.

Press submit and the device will then be created. You will then receive an email with a one-time
passcode (OTP). Download the UH VPN app for your platform and enter the OTP code to download
the profile. Then you can **connect and enjoy a fast, secure and private VPN connection!**

.. tip::
    Instructions for client apps can be found on the `clients docs page`_.


Advanced Digital Ocean Guides
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section is purely optional and is aimed at those wishing to integrate UH VPN Droplets
with advanced features of Digital Ocean. If you don't have a specific need for one of these
guides, then please ignore.

.. toctree::
    private-network


.. _1 Click App: https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/uh-vpn
.. _Digital Ocean: https://www.digitalocean.com/
.. _website: https://uh-vpn.com
.. _create an account: https://uh-vpn.com/auth/signup
.. _Creating Groups: website/groups/creating.html
.. _server creation docs page: website/servers/creating.html
.. |key_icon| image:: /_static/icons/key.svg
  :alt: Key Icon
.. _device creation docs page: website/devices/creating.html
.. _clients docs page: clients/index.html

Commit message:

Update info wrt premium vs free on setup guides

source/setup-guides/digital-ocean/index.rst, after:

Digital Ocean Simple Setup Guide
================================

This guide is a walkthrough tutorial on setting up UH VPN on `Digital Ocean`_. It contains step by step
instructions on how to provision a private cloud server along with all the necessary steps on setting
up UH VPN client applications.

The guide makes use of the "`1 Click App`_" available on Digital Ocean to create servers for UH VPN
as this provisioning technique allows an entire UH VPN deployment to be set up in less than 5 minutes!

- `Step 1: Create a Digital Ocean Droplet`_
- `Step 2: Create a Server on the UH VPN Website`_
- `Step 3: Configuring the Droplet`_
- `Step 4: Installing Client Apps`_
- `Advanced Digital Ocean Guides`_


Step 1: Create a Digital Ocean Droplet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First create an account or login at: `Digital Ocean`_. Then click the "Create Droplets" button as shown in
the screenshot below:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/do-landing.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: DO Landing Page

One is then presented with a droplet creation page as follows:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/droplet-creation.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Droplet Creation Page

Press the "Marketplace" tab and search for "UH VPN". Once selected, a UH VPN image will
be chosen:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/marketplace-tab.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Marketplace Tab

Ensure the settings are selected as shown below:

- **Plan** : Standard
- **Price** : $5 per month
- **Region** : Choose location closest to you unless you have a specific requirement
- **VPC** : No VPC
- **Additional Options** : None
- **SSH Key** : Select your SSH key.
- **Number of Droplets** : 1
- **Hostname** : Any friendly name you'd like to give to your server. E.g. "UH-VPN".
- **Tags** : None
- **Backups** : None

Then press create! The droplet will then begin provisioning and a page similar to the one shown below will
appear:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/droplet-provision.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Droplet Provisioning Page

Once the provisioning stage has completed, click on the droplet and one will be presented with a page detailing
all aspects of the droplet:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/droplet-overview.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Droplet Overview Page

Note down the IPv4 address of the droplet as we'll use this later on the UH VPN website. Then click the networking
tab in the droplet overview page. Scroll to the bottom and under the firewalls section press the "Edit" button.

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-firewall.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Firewall Creation Page

Press the create button, choose a name for the firewall E.g. UH-VPN-Firewall, then ensure the rules
are defined to match the specification below:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/inbound-rules.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Inbound Rules

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/outbound-rules.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Outbound Rules

Finally, ensure the firewall is associated to the droplet you created earlier. E.g. UH-VPN. Then
press "Create Firewall". The Droplet is now firewalled against adversaries and ready for UH VPN.

Step 2: Create a Server on the UH VPN Website
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The UH VPN `website`_ is the command and control centre for the VPN deployment. All VPN settings
are managed through this interface. The first step (if you haven't done so already) is to
`create an account`_. Then once logged in, click the management tab and then press the
"Create New Group" button. One is then presented with the following page:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-group.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create Group Page

If you're just using UH VPN for a single device, go ahead and click the "Free Plan" button. However,
if you'd like access to more features such as custom app branding, unlimited devices and advanced
VPN options, then choose the premium plan. A breakdown of the options can be seen on the
`Creating Groups`_ docs page. The premium plan is billed monthly at the rate of £1 per device.

Choose an appropriate name for the group E.g. Personal and then leave the timeout set at 86400.
Then press the "Submit" button and the group will be created.

Click on the group name that has just been created and the following page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/group-page.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Group Page

The first step is to create a UH VPN server, click the "Create New Server" button and the following
page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-server.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Server

Enter the following parameters:

* **Name** : UDP
* **Appearance Order** : 0
* **Domain/IP Address** : IPv4 Address noted from the Digital Ocean droplet earlier
* **Port** : 443
* **UDP** : Enabled
* **IPv4 Tunnel Network** : 172.31.255.0/24
* **IPv6 Tunnel Network** : fe80::/64
* **DNS Servers** : 1.1.1.1, 1.0.0.1
* **Add Forwarding Rule** : Enabled
* **Add NAT Rule** : Enabled

Press submit and the server will then be created.

.. note::
    A full description of all parameters can be found on the `server creation docs page`_.

Once created, press the |key_icon| icon to obtain a UH VPN API token for the server. Copy
and paste this to somewhere safe as it'll be used later.

Step 3: Configuring the Droplet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Login to the newly created droplet via SSH using the username "root". Once logged in, a UH VPN
setup script will appear:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/setup-wizard.png
  :width: 400
  :alt: Setup Wizard

Simply paste the UH VPN API token obtained in step 2 into the prompt and press Enter:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/prompt.png
  :width: 450
  :alt: Prompt

Only one token is going to be added as we only wish to associate one server to this droplet, so
answer with "n":

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/complete.png
  :width: 450
  :alt: Complete

The droplet is now successfully configured and ready to accept UH VPN connections!

Step 4: Installing Client Apps
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the final step in the set up process. First login to the UH VPN `website`_ and navigate
to the group you created earlier. Now it's time to make a new person who's authorised to access
the VPN server you just created. Click the "Create New Person" button and the following
page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-person.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Person

Enter your name and email address, then press submit and the person will then be created.

Next it's time to associate a device to the person that's just been created. To do so, click the
name of the person and then press the "Add new device" button and the following page
will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-device.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Device

Enter the following parameters:

* **Name** : A name for the device. E.g. Android
* **Expiry Date** : Leave unfilled unless you wish to specify a date for device revocation
* **Expiry Time** : Leave unfilled unless you wish to specify a time for device revocation

.. note::
    A full description of all parameters can be found on the `device creation docs page`_.

Press submit and the device will then be created. You will then receive an email with a one-time
passcode (OTP). Download the UH VPN app for your platform and enter the OTP code to download
the profile. Then you can **connect and enjoy a fast, secure and private VPN connection!**

.. tip::
    Instructions for client apps can be found on the `clients docs page`_.


Advanced Digital Ocean Guides
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section is purely optional and is aimed at those wishing to integrate UH VPN Droplets
with advanced features of Digital Ocean. If you don't have a specific need for one of these
guides, then please ignore.

.. toctree::
    private-network


.. _1 Click App: https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/uh-vpn
.. _Digital Ocean: https://www.digitalocean.com/
.. _website: https://uh-vpn.com
.. _create an account: https://uh-vpn.com/auth/signup
.. _Creating Groups: website/groups/creating.html
.. _server creation docs page: website/servers/creating.html
.. |key_icon| image:: /_static/icons/key.svg
  :alt: Key Icon
.. _device creation docs page: website/devices/creating.html
.. _clients docs page: clients/index.html
