source/setup-guides/ubuntu.rst, before:

Ubuntu Setup Guide
==================

This guide is a walkthrough tutorial on setting up UH VPN for a machine running Ubuntu. This machine
can be either virtual or physical, but must satisfy the following requirements:

* **OS**: Ubuntu 18.04
* **RAM**: minimum 100MB (1GB preferable)
* **Network**: Machine accessible either by public IP address, hostname or dynamic DNS.

This particular guide can be adapted to suit any cloud providers offering Ubuntu instances
as well as on-premise machines configured with Ubuntu.

If you wish to explore UH VPN advanced options or modify the sample deployments consult the extensive
documentation on this site.

- `Step 1: Satisfying prerequisites`_
- `Step 2: Create a Server on the UH VPN Website`_
- `Step 3: Configuring the Ubuntu Server`_
- `Step 4: Installing Client Apps`_


Step 1: Satisfying prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Note down the public IPv4 address of the Ubuntu machine. This IP address needs to point directly
   at the Ubuntu machine and not at a router or intermediate gateway.

2. Ensure that port ``UDP 443`` is open on your Ubuntu instance if a firewall is configured.
   This guide will set up UH VPN clients to connect over ``UDP 443`` so this port must be open.

3. Ensure that either an SSH connection or console access to the machine is available.


Step 2: Create a Server on the UH VPN Website
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The UH VPN `website`_ is the command and control centre for the VPN deployment. All VPN settings
are managed through this interface. The first step (if you haven't done so already) is to
`create an account`_. Then once logged in, click the management tab and then press the
"Create New Group" button. One is then presented with the following page:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-group.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create Group Page

If you're just using UH VPN for a single device, go ahead and click the "Free Plan" button. However,
if you'd like access to more features such as custom app branding, unlimited devices and advanced
VPN options, then choose the premium plan. A breakdown of the options can be seen on the
`Creating Groups`_ docs page. The premium plan is billed monthly at the rate of £1 per device.

Choose an appropriate name for the group E.g. Personal and then leave the timeout set at 86400.
Then press the "Submit" button and the group will be created.

Click on the group name that has just been created and the following page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/group-page.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Group Page

The first step is to create a UH VPN server, click the "Create New Server" button and the following
page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-server.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Server

Enter the following parameters:

* **Name** : UDP
* **Appearance Order** : 0
* **Domain/IP Address** : IPv4 Address noted from the Ubuntu machine earlier
* **Port** : 443
* **UDP** : Enabled
* **IPv4 Tunnel Network** : 172.31.255.0/24
* **IPv6 Tunnel Network** : fe80::/64
* **DNS Servers** : 1.1.1.1, 1.0.0.1
* **Add Forwarding Rule** : Enabled
* **Add NAT Rule** : Enabled

Press submit and the server will then be created.

.. note::
    A full description of all parameters can be found on the `server creation docs page`_.

Once created, press the |key_icon| icon to obtain a UH VPN API token for the server. Copy
and paste this to somewhere safe as it'll be used later.

Step 3: Configuring the Ubuntu Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now it's time to SSH into the Ubuntu Server. The first step is to add Ultra Horizon's
package archive to the system sources:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ultrahorizon/ppa

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/ppa-confirm.png
  :width: 500
  :alt: PPA Confirm

A prompt will then display information about the repository, accept this, then download the package information
from this newly added archive:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get update

Once this is done, UH VPN Server software can now be downloaded through the apt package manager.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get install uh-vpn-server

Once installed check that the UH VPN Service is running:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo service uh-vpn-server status

The output should say **active (running)** as depicted below:

.. image:: /_static/servers/service_status.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Expected status

Then to ensure UH VPN Server starts at boot, issue the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo systemctl enable uh-vpn-server

Next it's time to add the UH VPN Server API token we obtained earlier. This will
enable the UH VPN Server software to set up the VPN server on our Droplet.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo nano /etc/uh-vpn-server/tokens

This will bring up an editor prompt like so:

.. image:: /_static/servers/token_store.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Token store

In this example, the token (``0123456...``) has been appended to the file. Once this is done,
save the file and exit the editor (Ctrl-X in nano).

The server is now configured and ready to accept incoming VPN connections!

.. note::
    For advanced configurations of the server software follow the `server documentation`_.

Step 4: Installing Client Apps
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the final step in the set up process. First login to the UH VPN `website`_ and navigate
to the group you created earlier. Now it's time to make a new person who's authorised to access
the VPN server you just created. Click the "Create New Person" button and the following
page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-person.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Person

Enter your name and email address, then press submit and the person will then be created.

Next it's time to associate a device to the person that's just been created. To do so, click the
name of the person and then press the "Add new device" button and the following page
will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-device.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Device

Enter the following parameters:

* **Name** : A name for the device. E.g. Android
* **Expiry Date** : Leave unfilled unless you wish to specify a date for device revocation
* **Expiry Time** : Leave unfilled unless you wish to specify a time for device revocation

.. note::
    A full description of all parameters can be found on the `device creation docs page`_.

Press submit and the device will then be created. You will then receive an email with a one-time
passcode (OTP). Download the UH VPN app for your platform and enter the OTP code to download
the profile. Then you can **connect and enjoy a fast, secure and private VPN connection!**

.. tip::
    Instructions for client apps can be found on the `clients docs page`_.


.. _installation instructions: servers/installation.html
.. _website: https://uh-vpn.com
.. _create an account: https://uh-vpn.com/auth/signup
.. _Creating Groups: website/groups/creating.html
.. _server creation docs page: website/servers/creating.html
.. |key_icon| image:: /_static/icons/key.svg
  :alt: Key Icon
.. _server documentation: servers/index.html
.. _device creation docs page: website/devices/creating.html
.. _clients docs page: clients/index.html

Commit message:

Update Ubuntu guide to temporarily add net-tools dependency until fix is included in release.
Ref: #11

source/setup-guides/ubuntu.rst, after:

Ubuntu Setup Guide
==================

This guide is a walkthrough tutorial on setting up UH VPN for a machine running Ubuntu. This machine
can be either virtual or physical, but must satisfy the following requirements:

* **OS**: Ubuntu 18.04
* **RAM**: minimum 100MB (1GB preferable)
* **Network**: Machine accessible either by public IP address, hostname or dynamic DNS.

This particular guide can be adapted to suit any cloud providers offering Ubuntu instances
as well as on-premise machines configured with Ubuntu.

If you wish to explore UH VPN advanced options or modify the sample deployments consult the extensive
documentation on this site.

- `Step 1: Satisfying prerequisites`_
- `Step 2: Create a Server on the UH VPN Website`_
- `Step 3: Configuring the Ubuntu Server`_
- `Step 4: Installing Client Apps`_


Step 1: Satisfying prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Note down the public IPv4 address of the Ubuntu machine. This IP address needs to point directly
   at the Ubuntu machine and not at a router or intermediate gateway.

2. Ensure that port ``UDP 443`` is open on your Ubuntu instance if a firewall is configured.
   This guide will set up UH VPN clients to connect over ``UDP 443`` so this port must be open.

3. Ensure that either an SSH connection or console access to the machine is available.


Step 2: Create a Server on the UH VPN Website
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The UH VPN `website`_ is the command and control centre for the VPN deployment. All VPN settings
are managed through this interface. The first step (if you haven't done so already) is to
`create an account`_. Then once logged in, click the management tab and then press the
"Create New Group" button. One is then presented with the following page:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-group.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create Group Page

If you're just using UH VPN for a single device, go ahead and click the "Free Plan" button. However,
if you'd like access to more features such as custom app branding, unlimited devices and advanced
VPN options, then choose the premium plan. A breakdown of the options can be seen on the
`Creating Groups`_ docs page. The premium plan is billed monthly at the rate of £1 per device.

Choose an appropriate name for the group E.g. Personal and then leave the timeout set at 86400.
Then press the "Submit" button and the group will be created.

Click on the group name that has just been created and the following page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/group-page.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Group Page

The first step is to create a UH VPN server, click the "Create New Server" button and the following
page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-server.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Server

Enter the following parameters:

* **Name** : UDP
* **Appearance Order** : 0
* **Domain/IP Address** : IPv4 Address noted from the Ubuntu machine earlier
* **Port** : 443
* **UDP** : Enabled
* **IPv4 Tunnel Network** : 172.31.255.0/24
* **IPv6 Tunnel Network** : fe80::/64
* **DNS Servers** : 1.1.1.1, 1.0.0.1
* **Add Forwarding Rule** : Enabled
* **Add NAT Rule** : Enabled

Press submit and the server will then be created.

.. note::
    A full description of all parameters can be found on the `server creation docs page`_.

Once created, press the |key_icon| icon to obtain a UH VPN API token for the server. Copy
and paste this to somewhere safe as it'll be used later.

Step 3: Configuring the Ubuntu Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now it's time to SSH into the Ubuntu Server.

The first step is to install the required dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install net-tools software-properties-common

Then it's time to add Ultra Horizon's package archive to the system sources:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ultrahorizon/ppa

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/ppa-confirm.png
  :width: 500
  :alt: PPA Confirm

A prompt will then display information about the repository, accept this, then download the package information
from this newly added archive:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get update

Once this is done, UH VPN Server software can now be downloaded through the apt package manager.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get install uh-vpn-server

Once installed check that the UH VPN Service is running:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo service uh-vpn-server status

The output should say **active (running)** as depicted below:

.. image:: /_static/servers/service_status.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Expected status

Then to ensure UH VPN Server starts at boot, issue the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo systemctl enable uh-vpn-server

Next it's time to add the UH VPN Server API token we obtained earlier. This will
enable the UH VPN Server software to set up the VPN server on our Droplet.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo nano /etc/uh-vpn-server/tokens

This will bring up an editor prompt like so:

.. image:: /_static/servers/token_store.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Token store

In this example, the token (``0123456...``) has been appended to the file. Once this is done,
save the file and exit the editor (Ctrl-X in nano).

The server is now configured and ready to accept incoming VPN connections!

.. note::
    For advanced configurations of the server software follow the `server documentation`_.

Step 4: Installing Client Apps
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the final step in the set up process. First login to the UH VPN `website`_ and navigate
to the group you created earlier. Now it's time to make a new person who's authorised to access
the VPN server you just created. Click the "Create New Person" button and the following
page will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-person.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Person

Enter your name and email address, then press submit and the person will then be created.

Next it's time to associate a device to the person that's just been created. To do so, click the
name of the person and then press the "Add new device" button and the following page
will be presented:

.. image:: /_static/setup-guides/create-device.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: Create New Device

Enter the following parameters:

* **Name** : A name for the device. E.g. Android
* **Expiry Date** : Leave unfilled unless you wish to specify a date for device revocation
* **Expiry Time** : Leave unfilled unless you wish to specify a time for device revocation

.. note::
    A full description of all parameters can be found on the `device creation docs page`_.

Press submit and the device will then be created. You will then receive an email with a one-time
passcode (OTP). Download the UH VPN app for your platform and enter the OTP code to download
the profile. Then you can **connect and enjoy a fast, secure and private VPN connection!**

.. tip::
    Instructions for client apps can be found on the `clients docs page`_.


.. _installation instructions: servers/installation.html
.. _website: https://uh-vpn.com
.. _create an account: https://uh-vpn.com/auth/signup
.. _Creating Groups: website/groups/creating.html
.. _server creation docs page: website/servers/creating.html
.. |key_icon| image:: /_static/icons/key.svg
  :alt: Key Icon
.. _server documentation: servers/index.html
.. _device creation docs page: website/devices/creating.html
.. _clients docs page: clients/index.html
